Basic design ideas:

Use ebtables to filter traffic based on ip and MAC
Use ebtables to log DNS requests- source, dest, query  (outgoing, ingoing, or both?
use crontab to update ebtable rules based on time and updates to block/unblock:
1) check owner: if blocked/unblocked, apply.  Else,
2) check client: if blocked/unblocked, apply.  Else,
3) check timetable.  If whitelist, check whitelist IPs.

If client or owner status is blocked until or unblocked until, and the time has expired, then revert to:
1) default if timetable is null
2) timetable if timetable is not null

ebtables should log to tmp :
DNS requests
dropped clients (MAC)
outgoing requests (MAC, dest IP, dest port) 

crontab every minute:
review log, update a tmp db with a summary of requests and time.
When the tmp db reaches size limit, write to permanent db (purge records older than a given time, append new)

table for clients
MAC : IP : name : owner : status : time : timetable
owner is linked to owner table  
status is
  default
  blocked until {time}
  unblocked until {time}
  following timetable {timetable}

table for owner
name : status : time : timetable
name is eg
  guest
  unrestricted
  unknown
  john
  mary
status is
  default
  blocked until {time}
  unblocked until {time}
  following timetable {timetable}

table for timetable
timetablename : access : day (mtwtfss) : starttime : endtime
access is 'full' (any IP) or 'whitelist'

table for dnstable
IP : address

how to handle unknown MAC?
handle as "unknown" rules

table for whitelist IP

questions -
how to allow owner to start/stop their own time?
how to record duration of time spent?
how to prevent caching up of manga?

-------------
SELECT clients.MAC, clients.status as clientstatus, clients.endtime as clientendtime, 
owners.status as ownerstatus, owners.time as ownerendtime, owners.timetable
FROM clients LEFT JOIN owners on clients.owner = owners.name
-----------
23 Jul 2018
Step 1:
Write function to look up a MAC and get the access rights for it based on the current time

